                                            Strings Concepts in JAVA [Assignment Questions/Answers]     03 Feb’23


ANA 01:

STRINGS:

Strings in java is a collection of characters. It is inbuilt class in java. String treated as object,allocate memory in heap area.
String is refered as the collection of characters,which are inclose within double cots.It refer as a String in java

Example: "abcd" , "#123A@" , "a" , "123"

String names = "PWSKILLS" 

String -> object -> heap -> java.lang.String


ANS 02:

Types of String in JAVA:
There are two types of String in Java:

a) Immutable String: It is non-changable, It can't Change.

ex: String brand = "PwSkills";

b) Mutable: It is changable,It can change.

ex: StringBuilder brand = new StringBuilder ("PwSkills"); 


ANS 03:

There are some way to create an String object in java:

1- String VarName = new String("PW")

2- char []ch  = {'P','W'};
     String VarName = new String (ch);


ANS 04:

String Constant Pool:

String Pool in Java is a special storage apace in java Heap memory where String literals sre stored. It is also known by names- String Constant Pool or String Intern Pool. Whenever a String literal is created,the JVM first checks the String Constant Pool before creating a new string object Corresponding to it.
It is an area in heap memory where java stores literal String values.The heap is an area of memory used for run-time operations.When a new variable iscreated and given a value,Java checks to see if the exact value exists in the pool.   


ANS 05:

Immutable Objects:->  The immutable objects are objects whose value can not be changed after inilization.We can not change anything once the objects is created. For Ex.- primitive objects such as int, long,float,double all lagecy classes, Wrapper class,String class,etc.

String s1 = "PWSkills";

Mutable Objects:->  The Mutable objects are objects whose value can be changed after initialization.We can change the object's values,such as field and states,after the object is created, Foe Ex.- Java.util.Date, StringBuilder, StringBuffer, etc.

StringBuilder brand = new StringBuilder("PwSkills");


Ans 06:

String pool is a storage space in the Java heap memory where Strring literals are stored . It is also known as String Constant pool/String Intern pool. it is privately maintained by the Java String class.
String constant pool belongs to the permanent generation area of Heap memory. String Constant Pool is a part of Heap area. String Constant pool not allowed Duplicates.